---
layout: post
title: "Hot and cold digital transformation trends"
date: 2021-09-08 19:00:00 -0000
categories:
---
Now and then, it is beneficial to survey trends to keep up and not invest resources into initiatives focusing on outdated concepts. Digital transformation trends highlight the upcoming and outgoing transformation initiatives. The CIO covered ten trends in a recent article, seven hot and three cold. 

 - Autonomous Operations
 - Self-service experiences
 - Autonomous drones
 - Predictive AI
 - <span style="color:blue">Blockchain</span> 
 - The changing face of work while building customer ecosystems
 - Digital twins
 - <span style="color:blue">Office tech mainstays</span>
 - Advanced sensors
 - <span style="color:blue"> Owning the customer</span>
 
If we analyze the overall patterns we see in these trends, there are some clear common denominators. First of all, automation and AI are here to stay and expands their reach. The use of digitalization is also on the advance, with more companies adopting digital twins of supply chains, for example. 

We can also see an apparent change in how we interact with customers. The change has undoubtedly been accelerated due to the pandemic, as customer behaviour has adapted to a new temporal everyday life. The question remains as to how this change may impact stakeholder expectations since their way of interacting with services and products may influence their overall attitude against certain aspects. Likewise, we can also see an increase in the customer's will to remain independent when utilizing services and products and resolving issues with them. 

With that said, we can also see some trends are going cold, suggesting that the office space as we know it will not stay. Surprisingly, blockchain is considered a trend going cold whilst still being experimented with and commercialized in some sectors. 


[CIO: 7 hot digital transformation trends — and 3 going cold](https://www.cio.com/article/3256045/digital-transformation-trends.html?nsdr=true&page=2)
