---
layout: post
title: "AI's value contribution to project management"
date: 2021-08-30 19:00:00 -0000
categories:
---
Artificial Intelligence(AI) is ever more ubiquitous in general society and our workplace, signalling that it intends to become a given component of everyday life. AI-powered solutions are becoming more common and are already providing value in several areas. 

However, what value can AI provide in the context of project management? In January, Modis published an article covering the potential benefits of introducing AI into the PM landscape. The article list three areas where AI can generate value: 1) Improved Business insights and productivity, 2) Planning and resource allocation, and 3) providing holistic project views. 

AI excel at pattern detection and can provide more insights compared to what a traditional analysis may do—unveiling substantially more information that can serve as a base for actions and decisions. Having this information in our hands enables us to make better decisions, and more often, the right decisions at critical times. Ultimately, we make less risky decisions in the heat of the moment if we better understand the situation, thanks to these insights.

Planning and resource allocation in small and concrete projects may be relatively simple. However, it becomes more challenging to estimate the time and resources needed to progress when the scope grows and changes. Recall that AI is exceptionally good at pattern detection. By digesting historical data, it would be possible to have an objective part provide us with estimates whenever needed. Furthermore, by feeding AI data in real-time, time plans and schedules can be automatically adjusted, reducing the risk for delays. 

A saying within the development community, "Keep it simple stupid," is a good reminder that we should avoid making things more complicated than they need to be. Whilst this may hold in cases, sometimes complexity is unavoidable, and we need to take a step back and review the situation from a more favourable distance. AI can help teams better understand the current situation through data and insight visualization, assisting in task prioritization and decision making. 

One final reflection concerning accountability. Making the right decisions is a daunting responsibility and improving the ability to do is thus natural. No one wants to be responsible when a project heads south, and while AI-assisted decision-making can be beneficial, it raises questions surrounding accountability. What happens when AI makes an error, and you act based on that error, thinking it is correct? The ethical consequences of AI are highly debated and out-of-scope for this post but need to be addressed via business practices if we are to use AI in our decision-making actively. 

Conclusively, AI can contribute substantially to project management, as described in Modis's article on the topic, and will most likely become an integrated part of our workflows, therefore paving the way for a modernized casting of the role as project manager. 

[Modis: How Artifical Intelligence can help in project management](https://www.modis.com/en-be/insights/blog/how-artificial-intelligence-can-help-in-project-management/)
