---
layout: post
title: "The strategy of realizing benefit"
date: 2021-09-01 19:00:00 -0000
categories:
---

Today's focus is benefits realization and how we measure it, as described by the Project Management Institute in their pamphlet on the topic. 

Projects are executed with the part-purpose of providing value to concerned stakeholders. More specifically, in project management terms, the value generated by a project is considered the benefit. 

Benefits Realization Management(BRM) is the methodology organizations use to measure the benefit that projects and programs provide. There are three stages to a BRM strategy:
1. Identify benefits
2. Execute benefits
3. Sustain benefits

Identifying benefits refers to the process of ensuring that endeavours deliver the intended value. Executing benefits aims during the execution of a project that intended benefits are still realistic, and in cases scout for additional benefits, so these are not foregone. Finally, as the term suggests, sustaining benefits ensures that benefits are continued to be produced after a project or program concludes. 

An initial insight is that benefits realization is not a one-off task, such as a single evaluation or valuation, and is a practice that must be rooted in the strategic business layer. It is simply not enough to look at the outcome of a project and compare it to the expected value. This is understandable since it is substantially more reasonable to early realize and act on a project that will not deliver rather than too late. With that said, it is no trivial task ensuring benefits end up realized. There are many processes and elements involved, and at different times in a project's lifetime.
Furthermore, these elements also shine on the need for flexibility and how projects and programs react to change. Naturally, this is why change plans and the assumption that change will happen are aspects needed to be considered at an early project phase. Change is a fact, especially within IT projects where transformation is often rapid. The context does prompt for interesting points of discussion, from a learning standpoint, on how BRM within IT tackles its frequently fast-changing environment. 


