---
layout: post
title: "The new communicative responsibility of PMs"
date: 2021-09-09 19:00:00 -0000
categories:
---
There is no doubt that the pandemic's onslaught has forever altered our everyday work lives, both for good and for bad, depending on who you ask. Nowadays, we work according to different rules, such as remote work and digital meetings, which would have been out of the question. Ultimately, the way we perform our tasks has changed. 

The CIO covered what they deem are seven new rules that project management should consider as a result of the changes brought on by the pandemic. 
1. Clarity is elusive — and expensive.
2. Your 'source of truth' has never been more critical.
3. Synchronous communication is a scarce resource.
4. Your work plan must be debugged.
5. Everyone is a project manager now.
6. The project manager has become 'The Negotiator.'
7. Emotional intelligence is project management essential

Let's zoom in on some of these new rules. One insight is that communication has changed significantly. Conveying clear and precise information has become more complicated, perhaps because instant messaging and audio-only meetings are current communicative norms. Likewise, being distributed also presents challenges to clarity and communication. Having a single source of project critical information is vital since everyone might hear and read different sources. Furthermore, people aren't equally engaged in the present communication compared to delayed, such as replying to an instant message one hour later, while earlier it meant stopping by someone's desk. 

So the project manager role has been entrusted with a higher responsibility of exerting and utilising communication skills, ensuring that your team is synchronised while exercising asynchronous communication mediums. 

[CIO: 7 new rules of project managers](https://www.cio.com/article/3624643/7-new-rules-of-project-management.html)


