---
layout: post
title: "Enterprise Environment Factors and IT"
date: 2021-09-03 17:00:00 -0000
categories:
---

Today we're following up with a further reflection of the content of the PMBOK Guide. 

Enterprise Environment Factors(EEF) can influence the direction and progression of projects. These factors can be either internal or external to a project. A couple of internal factors can be interesting since they can play significant roles in IT projects. With that said, of course, how much an internal EEF influences a project depends on the project circumstances. 

These internal EEFs are:
- Geographic distribution of facilities and resources
- Infrastructure
- Information technology software
- Employee capability 

Project work within IT tends to be geographically distributed across continents, often presenting its share of challenges such as time zones, differences in work culture etc. Thus projects must pay attention to the impact of these details to end up being delayed. 

The objective and desired benefit may involve transforming the current IT infrastructure or the IT software stack to a new desired state. These factors provoke some thoughts, as they may influence the direction of a project and, at the same time, be the problem a project is trying to solve. So, in essence, these two aspects can very well determine if some IT projects fail or succeed.

Finally, adding to a previous post, called "The digital transformation of society and talent retainment", that reflected the value of a modern talent retainment strategy where employees are provided with the means to up and re-skill. If these means are not provided, employees' capability may be inadequate, influencing projects negatively since essential skills might be missing. 
